>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We converted
all of our APIs to controllers.
So now let's talk about
the logging system.
I'm gonna go and open,
I'm gonna go to my next exercise,
which is adding logging
to our controllers.
First, I wanna talk about what
logging is and why it's important, and
what abstractions exist in ASP.NET Core
to allow you to log things.
So, logging is important because in a,
when you've deployed something
to production and something goes wrong,
something happens, things will go wrong.
Even if you have tests for things that you
should have tests for, things will break.
So logging is a construct
that we can use to make it so
that we can, in a way that's
really convenient and easy for
developers, to send messages
to a target system.
It could be a file, or it could be
something like Azure application insights,
or something like Datadog, whatever
the case may be, whatever system you use.
We can hook our logger into those
systems such that we can get
data that we need in case
something goes wrong.
Or in case we need to have a little extra
metadata when we're trying to debug
a problem.
So the way that logging is
handled is through what's
called the ILogger of T interface.
So the ILogger of T is,
the T part of that is the basically,
identifying where the service
is that you're logging from.
So in this case,
if you had a class called MyService and
that MyService class did stuff, okay?
You would inject in an ILogger of
MyService, and that basically gives
the logger enough informations to say,
this is where this logger is coming from.
So that way when it's actually flushing
that log message to either the console or
Datadog, it can say, hey,
this happened in the MyService class.
It gives developers
a little extra information.
So this is injected via what's
called constructor injection,
which is what we do with our controllers.
We define our services in our
constructor and then inject them in.
And then, those will get set by
the dependency injection system.
And then, our do work method very
simply logs a informational message.
So, what is log information?
And, can we log things other
than just information?
What does that mean?
Well, that's a concept called log levels.
So, .NET supports several log levels,
more than you probably could ever need,
which are the following.
Trace, which you would only do if you're
doing some real debugging, like you just
want to log out this thing but you really
don't want that log to go anywhere else.
Because logging systems,
you log to them, it will cost money.
So you don't wanna send every log.
Trace log is one of those logs that
you're probably not gonna send, right?
It's for low-level,
really intense debugging.
Most of the time I just skip that and
I just use the debug log level,
which is useful, as it says, for
debugging during development.
Information is generally just speaking,
hey,
I just want you to know
that this thing happened.
You can choose to log this to
a logging provider or not.
Using a filter, which, I think we'll
touch on briefly here in a bit.
And this is where really the logging
really becomes important,
when you're talking about failures
that you may need to figure out or
recover from when you're talking about
a failure in a production system.
Maybe an API is failing.
Maybe it's giving back 500 and
you're not sure why.
Well, our logger here, our warning
error and critical, respectively,
based on intensity as you can imagine,
are there to serve that.
So warning is typically,
something unexpected has happened, but
the application can still
function correctly.
Maybe the system was in
a slightly invalid state and
this method was able to kinda bypass that,
or ignore it, or even correct it.
But it wanted to log warning because
it wanted to let the developer and
the the system engineers
know what happened there.
We have error, for
when you've thrown an exception,
we couldn't get a hold of the database,
and we've caught that exception.
And now we've logged that error to
our logging system to say, hey,
we caught this exception, here's some data
about what was going on around that time.
Whatever would make your log more useful.
And then critical is
like all hands on deck,
the type of log message where it's like,
if you're logging a critical message,
then you really need to
pay attention to it.
These are the logging levels.
The ones that I use are debug up,
I typically just skip trace, personally.
And then,
as I demonstrated in the previous course,
there's one logging method
on the interface itself.
But there are several extension methods
that are provided to just say, hey,
I just want to log a trace, or
wanna log a debug log, so on and so forth.
So if we're looking at our employees
controller class, we're gonna look here,
and we're gonna go down to Employees, and
we're gonna go to Employee Controller.
And the first thing we're going to do,
I'm gonna put this,
knock that onto a second line, and
then I'm gonna hit the comma, and
I'm gonna go, ILogger of employee
controller, and I'm going to say logger.
And I'm gonna do command dot, I'm gonna
say, create an assign field, Logger.
I am going to rename
this with an underscore.
That's a personal preference thing.
And then,
we now have our logger injected in.
Couple of notes, if you do put in
a type that doesn't belong here,
it will tell you, and
it will complain that,
I don't think that this is the type
that you want, or it will do that.
I think it actually does that
inside of JetBrains writer.
But you don't wanna do this,
you just wanna inject in the logger for
the thing,
the item that you're constructing.
So you wanna do it like that.
So that's good.
And now we've got a way to log messages
as changes are being made to our system.
And we're gonna focus mostly on our PUT
method here, just for the sake of example.
To actually add in some general
information to log when somebody calls
this method.
So we are going to call our logger and
say, Logger.LogInformation.
Boom, we're gonna say,
updating employee with ID, blah, okay?
Let's go ahead and
run it and see what happens.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: 5129, we'll go
ahead and change this to a put request,
and we'll just make up an employee.
Let's see.
Go ahead and send it.
Boom, of course we get our not found,
because there's no employee with 333.
But we've run our solution and
we can see that it does indeed log an info
message for the employee controller class.
And it does say that we updated
employee with ID 333, or
at least we were trying to.
And that's because we put our log
information method at the top,
this executed before anything else.
So naturally,
it will then afterwards return not
found because it will
continue down the method.
So, boom.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We can add
additional messages as is needed.
I wouldn't say that there's
a standard thing that I do,
it really just depends on
the needs of the system.
I mean, I'll just say that.
So we'll stop there.
We'll restart.
We can add our warning message here to say
that if we do execute a put request and
we get not found, we can go down here and
say that, okay, our warning.
Warning, somebody tried
to call this endpoint,
an employee with this ID wasn't found.
Just thought you should know.
And we can add additional information
like, if we called our repository method,
and maybe our repository is actually
connected to a database, and
we wanted to update that method.
We wanted to update it, and
maybe that database had an outage, okay?
We might wanna catch
that exception here and
then log that error occurred
while updating employee ID here.
And then we could, of course,
also return a status code of 500, or
even re-throw the exception,
which would do the same thing.
I do wanna mention a couple of things,
you'll notice the use of what's
called structured logging.
Let's take a close look
at this error message.
And if you're familiar
with the string feature,
that allows you to put a little
dollar sign here in front and
actually inject in a variable
to actually print on the string.
You can see that you can do that, but
that's actually is not
what's happening here.
There's no dollar signs in front of this.
And that's because we are saying that this
property name is called Employee ID, and
as the second argument of this
function for log information,
we're passing in the ID.
And what this will do is it will
positionally, and what i mean by that is,
this one is the first one,
with the curly braces, that comes first.
So this is the first argument
that would go into there.
It will assign this to this variable and
then capture it in your logging
system as additional metadata.
And you could use that
metadata to then filter down,
depending on what the logging
system is capable of doing.
I do wanna mention that you can
have as many of these as you want.
So if you wanted to say,
update employee with ID and in department,
if you were capturing
department in the request.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: You'll see
that it actually complains at you.
This is actually a thing that
Microsoft provides to say, hey,
you're not using this logger correctly.
Number of parameters supplied in
the logging message template do not
match the number of named parameters.
So it's trying to help you here.
That's when you would say, okay,
the department is Engineering, and
then it'll stop complaining.
And that's because it sees these
placeholders here and it says,
you need to make sure
that you're using them.
And you can see if you add more,
you get more error, which is pretty cool.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Microsoft
trying to help you.
Throw in your bone.
Question, yes.
>> Speaker 1: So, with the logger,
is that just basically logging
messages within the stack trace?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yes,
well, in this case, it's logging
messages within the console
that is running.
So this isn't the stack trace per se,
a stack trace is an exception.
Like, if you have an exception
that'll tell you all of the methods
that were called up to and
to the top of that exception,
to show you where the position
of your error message was at.
Or your exception was being thrown.
In this case,
it's actually logging into the console,
which is what the logger does by default.
So, that's where it's putting it.
So that's why it has that
logging capability by default.
If you wanted to add it to,
let's say, Datadog, or another log,
some kind of log file or something else,
you would add what was called
a logging provider to do that for you.
And then you'd say, hey,
this is my Datadog location and API key,
I wanna log into there, or I wanna log
into this application insights, instance.
Just showing a brief example of this.
This is not in the code.
If you so wanted to, you could
expand your testing out to ensure
that you're logging is happening
inside of your control.
You can actually test for that.
This is using a library called Mock
to actually create what's called
a MockLogger, and
then another library called ILogger.Mock,
to verify that we are updating
employee with ID.
And this ID,
employee with ID successfully updated.
So this is if you wanted to test to make
sure that something was actually happening
to your log.
Testing the ILogger interface directly
is actually rather difficult.
You could write your own
to actually capture that,
but I think that would be
a bit of a waste of time.
The typical pattern that
I've seen in the wild for
actually handling this is creating
a mock object using the Mock library.
And that basically says, hey,
I'm gonna you do a bunch of magic under
the hood to create this interface for
you without having you to
define a concrete class for it.
So, I just wanted to throw that out
there as something that you can do.
I don't usually do this in practice,
and the reason I don't do this is that,
typically, I just don't go that far.
I don't test every possible permutation of
code, or possible thing that could happen.
Simply because the time and
the effort involved in doing something
like that usually isn't worthwhile.
But in case you wanted to do that, you
can, and as I mentioned, I would do it in
a business critical process,
where logging is absolutely necessary.
And if this log doesn't happen,
Spencer loses his job, well,
then I'm probably going
to write a test for it.
But in practice,
I don't do this most of the time.
It's there if you want it, though.